# forSISL
Modern Fortran interfaces to the SINTEF Spline Library (SISL)

# Welcome to the forSISL library 

## Description

The forSISL library provides Modern Fortran C-Interoperability interfaces to 
the SINTEF Spline Library (SISL) C library for NURBS curve and surface modeling
and interrogation. These interfaces allow Fortran programmers to call the
underlying SISL Library C routines in an almost seamless manner without the
traditional C based wrappers previously used to interface C and Fortran.

With the exception of a handful of graphics driver routines designed to be 
replaced by user supplied versions of the functions, all of the C functions
described version 4.4 of the SISL Reference Manual that is supplied with the
SINTEF SISL library software are supported (a total of 173 routines). In
addition, a set of routines to write and read SISL surface and curve objects
to/from Fortran sequential formatted files are provided. These mimic the
SINTEF Go software format C++ routines found in the SISL C library software.
The user is warned however that only a small number of the 173 routines have
been tested at this time. The routines that have been tested are used in the
fifteen example programs that are supplied with the forSISL source. Each
of the example programs are Fortran implementations of the examples supplied
with the SINTEF C library software. These examples have all been tested and
the results verified to match the output generated by their C++ equivalents. 

A complete verification of all of the 173 routines in the forSISL library will 
require the development of a substantial number of unit tests that exercise
each function. A complete and thorough V&V of the entire code base is planned
but will require a substantial expenditure in time and effort so it is delayed
for future releases. However, since the majority of the SISL C functions
share a lot of their signature (interface) with other functions, it is felt
that the probability of the functions that have not been tested will work 
properly is high. Users are advised and encouraged however to treat the
initial release of forSISL as early beta code and report any problems to the
developer. 

Build instructions are given in the accompanying BUILD_INSTRUCTIONS file

The SISL C library software is available from:
https://github.com/SINTEF-Geometry/SISL. Users must build the SISL C library and
link it into their projects prior to attempting to use the forSISL interfaces.

## Contact

   Dr. Richard Weed
   Email: rweedmsu@gmail.com


